While Loops
While loops are also fairly common and
execute code while an expression is true.
While loops have a simple format and,
like if statements,
use square brackets for the test.
Let’s re-examine the previous example and
rewrite it using a while loop.
Our script gives the counter variable the
initial value of 1…
…Then as long as the counter variable
is less than 10…
…the IP address is printed to the screen.
Let’s run this script and see what we get.
This is not the output we expected
and is due to a common mistake called
an “off by one” error.
In our script, we used the less than
operator (-lt)
instead of less than or equal to (-le)
so our counter only got to nine, not ten
as originally intended.
The counter++ line uses the
double-parentheses construct
to perform arithmetic expansion and
evaluation at the same time.
In this particular case, we use it to
increase our counter variable by one.
Fixing our script requires one minor
change.
We simply need to change it to use the
less than or equal to operator.
Good. Our while loop works quite well now.